# Olly Spooner - **Personal statement**

With extensive experience in small and medium-sized organizations, I have developed a strong ability to identify and execute tasks independently, often with minimal support. I also relish working with and sharing ideas with others, both inside and oustide of a formal team. My diverse background has equipped me with a broad perspective, allowing me to avoid tunnel vision and provide well-rounded and sometimes novel solutions.

Balancing user-driven and developer-driven approaches has enabled me to deliver optimal solutions that prioritize performance, security, functionality, and usability. My experience working with both internal and external stakeholders has honed my skills in gathering and defining user requirements, even for those who are not actively engaged in the project. While at ShelterBox, I have successfully developed solutions for very different areas of the business, namely Fundraising and International Programmes.

I am adept at communicating with users of varying levels technical understanding, helping different stakeholders define their needs and constraints. My ability to visualize processes and translate them into more digestible forms ensures a collaborative and engaged project environment. I also work closely with external technical teams, advocating for software systems with integration and extensibility features to avoid future limitations.

I have developed applications using both low-code (Mendix, PowerApps) and traditional programming platforms (Java, JavaScript, PHP, C#). Using a blend of compatible technologies has allowed us to take advantage of the speed of low-code, while being able to add extended functionality that would not be achievable using only that approach.

Our team employs Agile SCRUM methodologies for Mendix development, and I have recently obtained Prince2 Foundation certification to enhance my project management skills. Our development process follows a standardized cycle, including requirements gathering, implementation, testing, and release stages. We utilize two-week sprints to plan and review our progress, continuously improving our processes. This approach to development allows us to be extremely flexible as we can quickly pivot as needs evolve.

As a growing organisation, ShelterBox had strategic ambitions such that just scaling up the existing aid delivery management would not work. In order to deliver 10 times the aid, they could not simply hire 10 times the staff. There was a clear need to improve and standardise processes, automate tasks and increase the quality of record keeping. After investigating a variety of options from ready-made solutions to writing our own from scratch, I found Mendix. We began using Mendix in June of 2017, and I formed part of the negotiation and the initial development team.

Since producing the "Operations App", I and my team have developed several more large scale apps including a self-service portal for our volunteers, a donation system for the website and a suite of logistics apps for our Supply Chain team. We have also used Mendix for numerous quick tasks and utilities.

I have seen the Microsoft Online platform evolve over the last 11 years and have a proven track record of administering and developing applications and itegrations with it (M365, Azure, SharePoint, PowerPlatform). My expertise includes creating Model-driven and Canvas PowerApps, connecting systems to reduce data duplication and task repetition, and creating middleware solutions using tools like PowerQuery, PowerAutomate, PowerShell, Python, and XProc.

With over 20 years of experience in administering various relational database systems (including MS SQL, Firebird, PostgreSQL, and MySQL), I have provided everything from data entry services, though querying and reporting for data retrieval, to writing the entire database from scratch. Often these database systems provided the backend to a CRM (CARE NG, Blackbaud CRM) or ERP and financial systems (Access Dimensions), so I have learned to query and corrolate data accross some very different systems. More recently, we have begun the move to Dynamics CRM and Business Central, allowing me to further broaden my technical capabilities.

I am passionate about working closely with users to develop data models and processes that form the foundation of effective solutions. This collaborative approach fosters a shared understanding of issues and solutions, leading to successful project outcomes. I greatly enjoy meeting and working with new people, always trying to be a positive influence on any workplace.
